Completed the first draft (#75)
auth0-blog/guest-writer: articles/2020-03-24-title.markdown

[Symfony Framework](https://symfony.com/) has a vibrant community just like its counterpart - **Laravel**. The ecosystem around **Symfony Framework** thrives from the utmost significance of the plethora of reusable PHP components that **Symfony** provides. These components are used throughout **PHP** land. Tools like WordPress, Drupal, phpBB and Laravel depend on **Symfony Framework** components a lot. Well-known PHP projects such as [Silex](http://silex.sensiolabs.org/), [Twig](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/) and [Swiftmailer](http://swiftmailer.org/) originated from **Symfony** projects. One notable Symfony community is [Sensiolabs Connect](https://connect.sensiolabs.com/), which is an extensive professional network for Symfony developers.

> ## Symfony Components

Author: We can remove it

│  ├─ console
│  └─ phpunit
├─ config/
│  └─ packages/
│  └─ routes/
├─ public/
│  └─ index.php
├─ src/
│  └─ Controller/
│  └─ Entity/
│  └─ Form/
│  └─ Migrations/
│  └─ Repository/
│  └─ Security/
│  └─ Kernel.php
├─ templates/
├─ translations/
├─ var/
├─ vendor
   └─ ...
```

The recommended purpose for each of these directories can be found below:

- `bin`: Contains the executable files
- `config`: Contains all the configuration defined for any environment
- `public`: This is the document root and it holds all publicly accessible files, such as `index.php`, stylesheets, JavaScript files and images. The `index.php`  file is also called “front controller”.
- `src`: Contains all the Symfony-specific code (controllers and forms), your domain code (e.g. Doctrine classes) and all your business logic
- `templates`: Contains all the template files for the application
- `tests`: This houses the files for functional or unit test
- `translations`: Contains translation files for internationalization and localization
- `var`: Contains all the cache and log files generated by the application
- `vendor`: Contains all application dependencies installed by Composer

## Run the application

> Navigate into the newly created project folder and 

Author: True

    {
        $roles = $this->roles;
        // guarantee every user at least has ROLE_USER
        $roles[] = 'ROLE_USER';
        return array_unique($roles);
    }
    
    
    public function setRoles(array $roles): self
    {
        $this->roles = $roles;
        return $this;
    }
    
    
    /**
     * @see UserInterface
     */
    public function getPassword(): string
    {
        return (string) $this->password;
    }
    
    
    public function setPassword(string $password): self
    {
        $this->password = $password;
        return $this;
    }
    
    
    /**
     * @see UserInterface
     */
    public function getSalt()
    {
        // not needed when using the "bcrypt" algorithm in security.yaml
    }
    
    
    /**
     * @see UserInterface
     */
    public function eraseCredentials()
    {
        // If you store any temporary, sensitive data on the user, clear it here
        // $this->plainPassword = null;
    }
    
    
    public function getName(): ?string
    {
        return $this->name;
    }
    
    
    public function setName(string $name): self
    {
        $this->name = $name;
        return $this;
    }
}
```

> The properties defined here will represent each field for the user table within the database.

Author: Done

    
            // Set their role
            $user->setRoles(['ROLE_USER']);
    
            // Save
            $em = $this->getDoctrine()->getManager();
            $em->persist($user);
            $em->flush();
    
            return $this->redirectToRoute('app_login');
        }
    
        return $this->render('registration/index.html.twig', [
            'form' => $form->createView(),
        ]);
    }
}
```

Here, we mapped this controller to the `*registration*` route. Therefore, all HTTP request sent to the  `/registration` endpoint to register users within the application will be processed by the `index()` method defined above. This method will process the registration form and persists user data to the database; if the form has not been submitted yet, a user registration form will be rendered instead. 

Lastly, generate a new controller that will handle the login process for a user:

```bash
php bin/console make:controller SecurityController
```

After running the command above, a new controller named `SecurityController.php` will be created within the `src/controller` directory. We will update this file in a bit.

## Understanding Symfony Routes

> Now that we are done creating all the required controller for this application, we can now proceed to create the registration and login form. But before that, you will notice that all the controllers created so far come with a PHP annotation of `***@Route***``*()*`. This is used by Symfony to define the route that will receive a particular request and render a view where and when necessary.

Author: Fair enough

```php
// src/Form/UserType.php
<?php
    
namespace App\Form;
    
use App\Entity\User;
use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\EmailType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\PasswordType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\RepeatedType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\TextType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;
use Symfony\Component\OptionsResolver\OptionsResolver;
    
class UserType extends AbstractType
{
    public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
    {
        $builder
            ->add('email', EmailType::class)
            ->add('name', TextType::class)
            ->add('password', RepeatedType::class, [
                'type' => PasswordType::class,
                'first_options' => ['label' => 'Password'],
                'second_options' => ['label' => 'Confirm Password']
            ])
        ;
    }
    
    public function configureOptions(OptionsResolver $resolver)
    {
        $resolver->setDefaults([
            'data_class' => User::class,
        ]);
    }
}
    
```

> 

Author: Done

## Generating the Login form

> Creating a powerful login form for Symfony website is quite simple. The [Makerbundle](https://symfony.com/doc/current/bundles/SymfonyMakerBundle/index.html) can be used to easily bootstrap a new Login form without hassle. Depending on your setup, you may be asked different questions and your generated code may be slightly different. To create the Login form, run the following command:

Author: This is not really a description of the MakerBundle per se. It was just explained to the readers that a login form can also be generated with it.

```bash
php bin/console make:auth
```

> As a response from the preceding command, you will be prompted to provide answers to a couple of question. First, you will be asked about the style of authentication that you want and the class name for your authenticator. Choose Login Form Authenticator and enter `LoginFormAuthenticator` as the name. Next, choose a name for the controller that will handle authentication within the application. We already created `SecurityController`, so feel free to type it here. Once the process is completed, two new files will automatically be created for you in `src/Security/LoginFormAuthenticator.php` and `templates/security/login.html.twig`.  It will also update both `config/packages/security.yaml` and `src/Controller/SecurityController.php`

Author: Done

Open the `src/Controller/SecurityController.php` and update it as shown here:

```php
// src/Controller/SecurityController.php
<?php
    
namespace App\Controller;
    
use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationUtils;
    
class SecurityController extends AbstractController
{
    /**
     * @Route("/", name="app_login")
     */
    public function login(AuthenticationUtils $authenticationUtils): Response
    {
        // get the login error if there is one
        $error = $authenticationUtils->getLastAuthenticationError();
        // last username entered by the user
        $lastUsername = $authenticationUtils->getLastUsername();
    
        return $this->render('security/login.html.twig', ['last_username' => $lastUsername, 'error' => $error]);
    }
    
    /**
     * @Route("/logout", name="app_logout")
     */
    public function logout()
    {
        throw new \Exception('This method can be blank - it will be intercepted by the logout key on your firewall');
    }
}
```

> 

Author: done

### Configure the database

> Here, let us configure our database connection. The default driver Symfony ships with is MySQL. Open the `.env` file within the root directory of the application and fill it with the database credentials as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, let us configure our database connection. The default driver Symfony ships with is MySQL. Open the `.env` file within the root directory of the application and find the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable.
```

```bash
DATABASE_URL=mysql://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:3306/db_name?serverVersion=5.7
```

> **Note**: *Do not forget to replace the following with the appropriate credentials:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update this line with your own credentials and the name you want to use for the database, e.g. `techcompanies`. If you don't have MySQL installed and set up on your system, [follow this guide to get started](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-getting-started/en/).
```

- *db_user: Replace with your database username*
- *db_password: Replace with your database password*

> - *db_name: Replace with your database name*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *db_name: Replace with your database name. You don't have to create the database yet, as we'll do that in the next step.*
```

> 

Reviewer: > Note: This is a good time to double check that `.env` is listed in your `.gitignore` file. You should NEVER commit sensitive data to your repository.

Reviewer: Let's just throw this in for good measure 😂

> Next, run the following command `php bin/console doctrine:database:create`, to create a database with the value of your database name. At the moment, the database still has no tables in there. Run the following command that will instruct [Doctrine](https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine.html) to create the tables based on the User entity that we have created earlier:

Reviewer: I'd suggest breaking the command out like this:

Next, run the following command to create a database with the value of your database name:

```bash
php bin/console doctrine:database:create
```

At the moment, the database still has no tables. Run the following command that will instruct [Doctrine](https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine.html) to create the tables based on the User entity that we have created earlier:

```bash
php bin/console doctrine:schema:update --force
```

> ## Setting up authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up Authentication
```

> **Symfony** ships with an awesome security component called **Guard** that simplifies authentication process. Let's take advantage of it in our app. The first step is to configure the Symfony security settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Symfony** ships with an awesome security component called [**Guard**](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security/guard_authentication.html) that simplifies the authentication process. Let's take advantage of it in our app. The first step is to configure the Symfony security settings.
```

Open up `config/packages/security.yaml` file and configure it like so:

```yaml
security:
    encoders:
        App\Entity\User:
            algorithm: auto
    
    # https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#where-do-users-come-from-user-providers
    providers:
        # used to reload user from session & other features (e.g. switch_user)
        app_user_provider:
            entity:
                class: App\Entity\User
                property: email
    firewalls:
        dev:
            pattern: ^/(_(profiler|wdt)|css|images|js)/
            security: false
        main:
            anonymous: lazy
            provider: app_user_provider
            guard:
                authenticators:
                    - App\Security\LoginFormAuthenticator
            logout:
                path: app_logout
                target: /
    

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add the summary of what changes/what's happening here.

> ## Setting up views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up Views
```

> **Symfony Framework** ships with a powerful templating engine called [Twig](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/). Twig allows you to write concise, readable templates that are more friendly to web designers and, in several ways, more powerful than PHP templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Symfony Framework** ships with a powerful templating engine called [Twig](https://twig.sensiolabs.org/). Twig allows you to write concise, readable templates that are more friendly to web designers and, in several ways, more powerful than PHP templates.
```

> The views needed for authentication in this app are in the `templates/security` directory. The base layout for our application has also been configured in the `templates/base.html.twig`. All of these views use the Bootstrap CSS framework, but you are free to customize them however you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The views needed for authentication in this app are in the `templates/security` directory. The base layout for our application has also been configured in the `templates/base.html.twig` file. All of these views use the [Bootstrap CSS framework](https://getbootstrap.com/), but you are free to customize them however you wish.
```

                        <div class="card-header">List of top technology companies </div>
                        {% if app.user != null %}
                            <table class="table">
                                <tr>
                                    <th>Company Name</th>
                                    <th>Market Value</th>
                                </tr>
                                {% for key, item in companies %}
                                    <tr>
                                        <td>{{ key }}</td><td>{{ item }}</td>
                                    </tr>
                                {% endfor %}
                            </table>
                        {% endif %}
                    </div>
                </div>
                {% if app.user == null %}
                    <a href="{{ path('app_login') }}" class="btn btn-info"> You need to login to see the list 😜😜 >></a>
                {% endif %}
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
{% endblock %}
```

Here, we are looping through the `$companies` array data passed from the `ListController` for appropriate rendering in the `index.html.twig` view.

> `app.user == null` - You can check if a user is authenticated or not. It returns true if a user is logged-in and null if a user is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `app.user == null` &mdash; Let's you check if a user is authenticated or not. It returns `true` if a user is logged-in and `null` if a user is not.
```

                                    <label for="password" class="col-md-4 control-label">Password</label>
                                    <div class="col-md-12">
                                        <input id="inputPassword" type="password" class="form-control" name="password" required>
                                    </div>
                                </div>
    
                                <input type="hidden" name="_csrf_token"
                                       value="{{ csrf_token('authenticate') }}"
                                >
    
                                <div class="form-group">
                                    <div class="col-md-12">
                                        <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">
                                            <i class="fa fa-btn fa-sign-in"></i> Login
                                        </button>
                                    </div>
                                </div>
                            </form>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
{% endblock %}
```

> `templates/registration/index.html.twig`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And for `templates/registration/index.html.twig`, paste in:
```

                                {{ form_row(form.password.first, {'attr': {'class': 'form-control'}}) }}
                            </div>
                        </div>
                        <div class="form_group">
                            <div class="col-md-12 mb-3">
                                {{ form_row(form.password.second, {'attr': {'class': 'form-control'}}) }}
                            </div>
                        </div>
                        <div class="form-group">
                            <div class="col-md-8 col-md-offset-4" style="margin-top:5px;">
                                <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">
                                    <i class="fa fa-btn fa-user"></i> Register
                                </button>
                            </div>
                        </div>
                        {{ form_end(form) }}
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
{% endblock %}
```

We are making use of the **Symfony** built-in [form](https://symfony.com/doc/current/book/forms.html) methods in this template.

> ## Update the Base Template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update the base template
```

> Update the base template with:

Reviewer: We should add the filename and short description of what it is here.

Author: Done

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        <title>{% block title %}Welcome!{% endblock %}</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.0.0/css/bootstrap.min.css">
    
        {% block stylesheets %}{% endblock %}
    </head>
    <body>
    <nav class="navbar navbar-expand-lg navbar-light bg-light" style="height: 70px;">
        <a class="navbar-brand" href="#">Symfony</a>
    
        <div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="navbarSupportedContent"></div>
        <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
            {% if app.user %}
                <li><a class="nav-link" href="{{ path('list') }}">View List</a></li>
                <li><a class="nav-link" href="{{ path('app_logout') }}">Logout</a></li>
    
            {% else %}
    
                <li><a class="nav-link" href="{{ path('app_login') }}">Login</a></li>
                <li><a class="nav-link" href="{{ path('registration') }}">Register</a></li>
            {% endif %}
        </ul>
    </nav>
    
        {% block body %}{% endblock %}
        {% block javascripts %}{% endblock %}
    </body>
</html>
```

> With all the routes and views fully set up, your can now go ahead and run the application using `php bin/console server:run`. View it on http://localhost:8000. You will see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all the routes and views fully set up, your can now go ahead and run the application using `php bin/console server:run`. View it on [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). You will see the following:
```

> **Register Page**

Reviewer: They should see the login page first, so let's put that image first and then move the register page below it.

![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584137560650_reg-auth.png)

**Login Page**

![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584137534861_auth-login.png)

**Landing Page**

> ![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584137491456_list-no-auth.png)

Reviewer: Can you swap this image out to the updated one, since it's still showing "List of Game of Throne characters"

Try registering a user on the application. Then proceed to log in. You will see this:

![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584865321770_log-error.png)

Oops! Don’t sweat it. This error occurred because a valid redirect route once authenticated has not been provided yet. To fix this, open the `LoginFormAuthenticator.php` file within `src/Security` directory and update the `onAuthenticationSuccess()` method as shown below:

```php
// src/Security/LoginFormAuthenticator
public function onAuthenticationSuccess(Request $request, TokenInterface $token, $providerKey)
{
    if ($targetPath = $this->getTargetPath($request->getSession(), $providerKey)) {
        return new RedirectResponse($targetPath);
    }
    
    return new RedirectResponse($this->urlGenerator->generate('list'));
}
```

What we have done here is to redirect the users to the `list` route immediately after being authenticated. You can now login and see the application functioning properly as described earlier:

> ![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584137681392_list-page.png)

Reviewer: Can you update this image too please 🙏 Still showing GoT.

## The profile debug Toolbar

> **Symfony** ships with an awesome web debug toolbar. It is one of the most recognizable elements of Symfony applications. It provides all sorts of information about sessions, cookies, variables, load time, service providers, request-response time cycle, app size and also an extensive error log. This toolbar increases the productivity of Symfony developers because it makes debugging super easy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Symfony** ships with an awesome web debug toolbar. It is one of the most recognizable elements of Symfony applications. It provides all sorts of information about sessions, cookies, variables, load time, service providers, request-response time cycle, app size, and also an extensive error log. This toolbar increases the productivity of Symfony developers because it makes debugging super easy!
```

You can disable the toolbar by setting the value of `toolbar` to `false` in `config/packages/dev/web_profiler.yaml`  file like so:

```yaml
# config/packages/dev/web_profiler.yaml
web_profiler:
    toolbar: false
    intercept_redirects: false
```

## Symfony vs other PHP frameworks

Right now, Laravel is the most trending PHP framework in the world. Laravel thrives on excellent and straightforward documentation. It's also easier to learn. Symfony, on the other hand, is a very stable and mature framework. It is great for very large web projects. Symfony has been around for so long that several PHP projects and frameworks like Laravel depend on many of its components. Symfony forces you as a developer to learn Solid OOP. Many open-source projects build on Symfony components, thus allowing a developer who is well-versed in Symfony to easily work on other PHP projects. CakePHP has an awesome inbuilt ORM that makes building queries and relationships a piece of cake. If you want an excellent comparison of Symfony and other PHP frameworks, check [here](https://raygun.com/blog/top-php-frameworks/).

> ## Aside: Using Auth0 with Symfony framework

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Aside: Using Auth0 with Symfony
```

**Auth0** issues [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/) on every login for your users. This means that you can have a solid [identity infrastructure](https://auth0.com/docs/identityproviders), including [single sign-on](https://auth0.com/docs/sso/single-sign-on), user management, support for social identity providers (Facebook, GitHub, Twitter, etc.), enterprise identity providers (Active Directory, LDAP, SAML, etc.) and your database of users with just a few lines of code.

We can easily set up authentication in our Symfony apps with [Auth0's Centralized Login Page](https://auth0.com/docs/hosted-pages/login). If you do not have an Auth0 account, [sign up](https://auth0.com/signup) for one now. Navigate to the Auth0 [management dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/), select **Applications** from the navigation menu, then select or create a regular web application that you want to connect with **Symfony**.

**Step 1: Install and Configure Auth0 plugin**

> Auth0 library is considered as a third-party service. Symfony recommended the use of [HWIOAuthBundle](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle) community bundle to authenticate users via any third-party service. To begin, install the bundle and other depedencies using composer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth0 library is considered as a third-party service. Symfony recommends the use of the [HWIOAuthBundle](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle) community bundle to authenticate users via any third-party service. To begin, install the bundle and other depedencies using composer:
```

```bash
composer require hwi/oauth-bundle:dev-master#b042ddd php-http/guzzle6-adapter php-http/httplug-bundle
```

You might get this question from the terminal:
“Do you want to execute this recipe?”
Just ignore this and select the `No` option as shown here:

![](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_75F99CFC371D2977940A8BECC4BFB83C9C104EF9C0A050087612B007FF458245_1584895196977_recipe-name-issue.png)

> This is a [known issue on GitHub](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle/issues/1581) and its because [HWIOAuthBundle](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle) has not been fully configured to support Symfony 5 yet. Executing its recipe will create a blank config file and expects it to be properly configured. This will fail and reverts `composer.json` to its original state. A work around is to select `no` option and manually add the bundle to `config/bundles.php` as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a [known issue on GitHub](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle/issues/1581), and it's because [HWIOAuthBundle](https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle) has not been fully configured to support Symfony 5 yet. Executing its recipe will create a blank config file and expects it to be properly configured. This will fail and reverts `composer.json` to its original state. A work around is to select `no` option and manually add the bundle to `config/bundles.php` as shown here:
```

    Doctrine\Bundle\DoctrineBundle\DoctrineBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    Doctrine\Bundle\MigrationsBundle\DoctrineMigrationsBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\SecurityBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    Symfony\Bundle\MakerBundle\MakerBundle::class => ['dev' => true],
    Symfony\Bundle\WebServerBundle\WebServerBundle::class => ['dev' => true],
    Http\HttplugBundle\HttplugBundle::class => ['all' => true], // add this
    HWI\Bundle\OAuthBundle\HWIOAuthBundle::class => ['all' => true],// add this
];
```

To import the  `redirect.xml` and `login.xml` routing files in your own routing file, open `config/routes.yaml`  and update its content as shown here:

```yaml
# config/routes.yaml
    
hwi_oauth_redirect:
  resource: "@HWIOAuthBundle/Resources/config/routing/redirect.xml"
  prefix:   /connect
    
hwi_oauth_connect:
  resource: "@HWIOAuthBundle/Resources/config/routing/connect.xml"
  prefix:   /connect
    
hwi_oauth_login:
  resource: "@HWIOAuthBundle/Resources/config/routing/login.xml"
  prefix:   /login
    
auth0_login:
  path: /auth0/callback
    
auth0_logout:
  path: /auth0/logout
```

> Next, create a new file named `hwi_oauth.yaml` within `config/packages` and use the following content for to configure the resource owners you want to use in your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a new file named `hwi_oauth.yaml` within `config/packages` and use the following content to configure the resource owners you want to use in your application:
```

```yaml
hwi_oauth:
  firewall_names: [main]
  # https://github.com/hwi/HWIOAuthBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/2-configuring_resource_owners.md
  resource_owners:
    auth0:
      type: oauth2
      class:               'App\Auth0ResourceOwner'
      client_id:           "%env(AUTH0_CLIENT_ID)%"
      client_secret:       "%env(AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET)%"
      base_url:            "https://%env(AUTH0_DOMAIN)%"
      scope: "openid profile email"
```

> Here, we set the name of the firewall in which the HWI0AuthBundle will be active as `main`. We then proceeded to create a resource owner and referenced an `Auth0ResourceOwner`. To set up this class, create a new file within the `src`  directory and call it `Auth0ResourceOwner.php`  and paste the following code in it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we set the name of the firewall in which the `HWI0AuthBundle` will be active as `main`. We then created a resource owner and referenced an `Auth0ResourceOwner`. To set up this class, create a new file within the `src` directory and call it `Auth0ResourceOwner.php`. Then paste the following code in it:
```

        ), $extraParameters));
    }
    
    /**
     * {@inheritdoc}
     */
    protected function configureOptions(OptionsResolver $resolver)
    {
        parent::configureOptions($resolver);
    
        $resolver->setDefaults(array(
            'authorization_url' => '{base_url}/authorize',
            'access_token_url' => '{base_url}/oauth/token',
            'infos_url' => '{base_url}/userinfo',
            'audience' => '{base_url}/userinfo',
        ));
    
        $resolver->setRequired(array(
            'base_url',
        ));
    
        $normalizer = function (Options $options, $value) {
            return str_replace('{base_url}', $options['base_url'], $value);
        };
    
        $resolver->setNormalizer('authorization_url', $normalizer);
        $resolver->setNormalizer('access_token_url', $normalizer);
        $resolver->setNormalizer('infos_url', $normalizer);
        $resolver->setNormalizer('audience', $normalizer);
    }
}
```

Finally in this section, open the `.env` and include your Auth0 credentials as shown here:

```bash
AUTH0_CLIENT_ID=AUTH0_CLIENT_ID
AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET=AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET
AUTH0_DOMAIN=AUTH0_DOMAIN
```

> Ensure that you replace `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`, `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET` and `AUTH0_DOMAIN` placeholder with the appropriate values as obtaintained from your [Auth0 management dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you replace `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`, `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `AUTH0_DOMAIN` placeholders with the appropriate values from your [Auth0 management dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/)
```

**Step 2: Register the Callback**

> Head over to your Auth0 [dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications/) and register Allowed Callback URLs as `http://127.0.0.1:8000/auth0/callback` and Allowed Logout URLs  as `http://127.0.0.1:8000/auth0/logout` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Head over to your Auth0 [dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications/) and register Allowed Callback URLs as `http://127.0.0.1:8000/auth0/callback` and Allowed Logout URLs  as `http://127.0.0.1:8000/auth0/logout` respectively.
```

The blog renders this on the same line unless you put an extra new line

**Step 3: Include Auth0's Centralized Login Page**

> Next, open `templates/security/login.html.twig` and the Auth0 login immediately after the `<form></form>` element as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, open `templates/security/login.html.twig` and add the Auth0 login immediately after the `<form></form>` element as shown here:
```
